So now that we've talked in
detail about the splitting
phase, using spliterators,
let's turn our attention
to the other end of
the stream and talk
about the combining phase.
And what we're going to do
here is begin our discussions
by describing the concept
of collectors in general,
and then focusing
our attention here
on so-called
non-concurrent collectors.
So we're going to talk about how
non-concurrent collectors are
used in Java.
And again, we're going to
limit our discussion right now
for sequential streams.
We'll come back later when we
talk about parallel streams
and talk about the concept
of a concurrent collector.
So as you probably recall the
collect() terminal operation
uses a collector to accumulate
stream elements into mutable
result containers.
So as you can see here-- this
is some stuff we've looked
at earlier--
we end up collecting the results
of processing the characters
in Hamlet, and filtering them,
and sorting them, and so on--
we collect them
into an ArrayList.
That's just one of many
things we could do.
So that's what collect() does.
It triggers the
intermediate operations
and it uses a collector to
create a single reduced result.
The collector itself is
defined by a generic interface.
And it's actually a really
interesting interface.
There are also various
characteristics
that can be associated
with a collector.
And these characteristics-- you
can think of them, effectively,
as metadata that dictate
properties of the collector.
And what makes something
a non-concurrent collector
versus a concurrent collector
is the characteristics.
This distinction between
concurrent and non-concurrent
collectors really is only
relevant for parallel streams.
For sequential
streams, you would
use a non-concurrent collector
because there's no parallelism.
For parallel streams,
oddly enough,
you could actually use
either a concurrent
or a non-concurrent collector.
We're just going to focus
on non-concurrent collectors
here for sequential streams.
And non-concurrent and
concurrent collectors
for parallel streams
we'll cover in later weeks
when we talk about
parallel streams.
This sometimes throws people
a bit of a curve ball,
however, because it might
look at first glance
like a non-concurrent
collector is
only relevant for
sequential streams.
But it turns out that
parallel streams can also
use non-concurrent collectors.
They just behave in a
slightly different way
than a concurrent collector.
So you can think of a
non-concurrent collector
for a sequential stream
as just an object that
accumulates elements into
a so-called mutable result
container, like dropping
coins into a piggy bank.
In a sense, a collector--
be it non-concurrent
or concurrent--
is the inverse of a spliterator.
The spliterator
partitions an input source
into a stream of elements.
A collector combines
a stream of elements
back into a single result.